feat: add scenario simulation demo (#7072)
autowarefoundation/autoware: docker/examples/demos/scenario-simulator/README.md

- `autoware` — the `ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-humble` image launching `planning_simulator.launch.xml` with `scenario_simulation:=true` so it pairs with an external scenario runner.
- `scenario-simulator` — the `scenario_test_runner` from `ghcr.io/tier4/scenario_simulator_v2:humble-25.0.17-runtime`, with `launch_autoware:=false` so it only drives the simulator engine.

Both services use `network_mode: host` and share a generated `cyclonedds.xml` (via the `cyclonedds-config` named volume) so ROS 2 discovery works between them. The `scenario-simulator` service waits for the `autoware` service's healthcheck (`/api/operation_mode/state` topic) to pass before launching.

## Prerequisites

- Docker Compose v2
- Sample map extracted to `~/autoware_map/sample-map-planning`
- Sample scenarios cloned to `~/autoware_scenario/`

[Download the sample map](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/demos/planning-sim/#download-the-sample-map) and unpack it to `~/autoware_map/sample-map-planning`.

Clone the sample scenarios repository to `~/autoware_scenario/`:

```bash

> git clone https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware_sample_scenarios.git ~/autoware_scenario

Reviewer: I don't like downloading the repository under that name.

I'd prefer at least downloading under `~/autoware_scenario/autoware_sample_scenarios` style.

- https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware/issues/7068 will move it under `~/autoware_data/scenarios/autoware_sample_scenarios`

Author: `~/autoware_data/scenarios/autoware_sample_scenarios/sample_scenario.yaml`

## Customizing

Edit the `command:` block in `docker-compose.yaml` to change launch arguments — for example, point `scenario:=` at a different YAML under `~/sample_scenario/`, or flip `launch_rviz:=true` on the scenario-simulator side to watch the run.

## Launch command reference

`autoware`:

```bash
ros2 launch autoware_launch planning_simulator.launch.xml \
  map_path:=/sample_scenario/sample-map-planning \
  vehicle_model:=sample_vehicle \
  sensor_model:=sample_sensor_kit \
  scenario_simulation:=true
```

`scenario-simulator`:

```bash
ros2 launch scenario_test_runner scenario_test_runner.launch.py \
  architecture_type:=awf/universe/20250130 \
  record:=false \
  scenario:=/home/aw/sample_scenario/sample-scenario.yaml \
  use_custom_centerline:=true \
  launch_rviz:=false \
  launch_autoware:=false
```

Paths above are container paths. They map back to the host via the `volumes:` block:

- `~/sample_scenario` → `/sample_scenario` (autoware) and `/home/aw/sample_scenario` (scenario-simulator)

> - The shared `cyclonedds-config` volume is populated by the `autoware` service on startup and mounted read-only into the scenario-simulator at `/home/aw/cyclonedds.xml`, which is what `CYCLONEDDS_URI` points at.

Reviewer: `~/sample_scenario` needs to be replaced with `~/autoware_scenario/` to be consistent within the file.

Author: The path is now downloaded to `~/autoware_data/scenarios/autoware_sample_scenarios/sample_scenario.yaml`

# scenario-simulator

Runs a `scenario_simulator_v2` scenario against a live Autoware planning stack. Two services are defined in `docker-compose.yaml`:

- `autoware` — the `ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-humble` image launching `planning_simulator.launch.xml` with `scenario_simulation:=true` so it pairs with an external scenario runner.
- `scenario-simulator` — the `scenario_test_runner` from `ghcr.io/tier4/scenario_simulator_v2:humble-25.0.17-runtime`, with `launch_autoware:=false` so it only drives the simulator engine.

Both services use `network_mode: host` and share a generated `cyclonedds.xml` (via the `cyclonedds-config` named volume) so ROS 2 discovery works between them. The `scenario-simulator` service waits for the `autoware` service's healthcheck (`/api/operation_mode/state` topic) to pass before launching.

## Prerequisites

- Docker Compose v2
- Sample map extracted to `~/autoware_map/sample-map-planning`
- Sample scenarios cloned to `~/autoware_data/scenarios`

[Download the sample map](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/demos/planning-sim/#download-the-sample-map) and unpack it to `~/autoware_map/sample-map-planning`.

> Clone the sample scenarios repository to `~/autoware_scenario/`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clone the sample scenarios repository:
```

# terminal 1 — Autoware planning stack (rviz needs X11)
cd docker/examples/demos/scenario-simulator
HOST_UID=$(id -u) HOST_GID=$(id -g) docker compose run --rm autoware

# terminal 2 — scenario runner
# --no-deps stops compose from starting a second `autoware` container
# (scenario-simulator declares depends_on: autoware); wait until the
# container in terminal 1 is healthy before running this.
cd docker/examples/demos/scenario-simulator
docker compose run --rm --no-deps scenario-simulator
```

`HOST_UID`/`HOST_GID` default to `1000`; drop the prefix if your host UID/GID are 1000.

## After the launch exits

Each `command:` block ends with `exec bash`, so when `ros2 launch` exits the container drops into an interactive shell instead of disappearing. `Ctrl+D` exits and removes the container (`--rm`).

## Customizing

Edit the `command:` block in `docker-compose.yaml` to change launch arguments — for example, point `scenario:=` at a different YAML under `~/autoware_data/scenarios`, or flip `launch_rviz:=true` on the scenario-simulator side to watch the run.

## Launch command reference

`autoware`:

```bash
ros2 launch autoware_launch planning_simulator.launch.xml \

>   map_path:=/sample_scenario/sample-map-planning \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  map_path:=/home/aw/autoware_map/sample-map-planning \
```

  vehicle_model:=sample_vehicle \
  sensor_model:=sample_sensor_kit \
  scenario_simulation:=true
```

`scenario-simulator`:

```bash
ros2 launch scenario_test_runner scenario_test_runner.launch.py \
  architecture_type:=awf/universe/20250130 \
  record:=false \

>   scenario:=/home/aw/sample_scenario/sample-scenario.yaml \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  scenario:=/home/aw/autoware_data/scenarios/autoware_sample_scenarios/sample-scenario.yaml \
```

  use_custom_centerline:=true \
  launch_rviz:=false \
  launch_autoware:=false
```

Paths above are container paths. They map back to the host via the `volumes:` block:

> - The shared `cyclonedds-config` volume is populated by the `autoware` service on startup and mounted read-only into the scenario-simulator at `/home/aw/cyclonedds.xml`, which is what `CYCLONEDDS_URI` points at.

Reviewer: The intro promises a host↔container mapping, but the only bullet describes the cyclonedds volume.
Also the existing bullet says the volume is mounted at `/home/aw/cyclonedds.xml`, but the compose mounts it at `/shared-config` and `CYCLONEDDS_URI` points to `file:///shared-config/cyclonedds.xml`. So this bullet is also slightly wrong.

**Suggestion:** drop the intro sentence and reword the bullet as a standalone note:

```suggestion
The `cyclonedds-config` named volume is populated by the `autoware` service on startup (a copy of `/home/aw/cyclonedds.xml`) and mounted into the scenario-simulator at `/shared-config`, which `CYCLONEDDS_URI` points at.
```
